hello and welcome to verified live at
least 1,000 Israelis are now known to
have been killed in Hamas attacks over
the weekend more Rockets have been fired
today into Israel with the Israeli Port
of ashalon targeted in the past few
hours Israel has continued its campaign
of air strikes on Gaza for a fourth day
un Aid agencies have warned of the
severe consequences of Israel's Siege on
the territory the World Health organiz
sttion has called for a humanitarian
Corridor to be opened into the area the
families of Israelis taken hostage have
been speaking about their Agony today
the Israeli Army says it's contacted the
families of 50 soldiers seized by herass
at least 123 Israeli soldiers have been
killed since
Saturday well coming up in this hour
we'll hear from a former senior minister
in the Palestinian Authority we'll also
hear from an Israeli whose family
members have been Tak hostage and from
Oxfam on the humanitarian situation in
Gaza but let's take a closer look at the
attacks on ashon in the last couple of
hours our correspondent Anna Foster has
been there in the city as those attacks
began the sirens went immediately I
think actually I was just about to take
you upstairs out of the shelter um
because uh we thought that there was the
all clear uh but again I can hear just
coming from upstairs the sound of the
Sirens once again here in ashalon you
can see uh there's people around me I
should just tell you a little bit more
about where we are actually this is the
the center of ashalon at a shopping
center that at this time it's just after
5:00 on a on a Tuesday here in Israel it
would be really really busy uh one of
our local producers the words he used
were um you wouldn't be able to breathe
in this place at this time on a normal
weekday it would be wall to wall it
would be packed with people uh who just
finished work um who were out for the
the evening uh but instead all of the
shops up there are shut there are still
you can see people drifting down this is
basically an underground shelter and
it's Robbie if you wouldn't mind just um
around here um they're all really well
marked so if you come into one of these
areas uh you know where you have to go
so we were just out 5:00 when the sirens
started uh we came down the stairwell
there's a a shelter right underground
there you can see I'm just going to take
to this corner and you can just sort of
see up the stairs because remember
people who live uh in these areas they
are used to Rocket attacks coming from
Gaza this is not something that they
they haven't experienced before um I
wouldn't say they were relaxed about it
but you know they they've they've done
this many many times um so they come
into a place of safety when they get
underground you can see them starting to
move out again so well right here
because we are so very close to the uh
the perimeter the perimeter fence from
Gaza this is something this is an area
that is within reach for Hamas Rockets
essentially so what they do is they they
send them right around this area of
Southern Israel uh and they put out the
alasan brigades that the military wing
of Hamas put out this warning earlier
today asking people in ashalon to leave
by 1700 local time and as I was just
explaining to you at 1700 uh we were
just outside the sirens started straight
away 10 minutes or so ago we've had the
sirens twice but I just want to show you
we lost the signal a little bit cuz we
were obviously downstairs in that
shelter uh with the very thick walls but
look this would normally be so busy on
uh on a Tuesday afternoon the shops are
all shut there's nobody here I'm just
going to take you outside uh so you can
see just how quiet this place is right
now um a lot of people are choosing to
to stay at home some have left all
together um but a lot of people are
choosing to stay stay at home stay
indoors stay places where there are
shelters where they know they can be
safe but look it just gives you an idea
Matthew if you look around here you know
it should be a car park packed with cars
it's a a beautiful sunny evening here in
ashalon less than 10 kmers from Gaza um
but people here they are indoors they're
in shelters they're doing what they can
to stay safe Hann of Hoster in ashalon
the Israeli military have taken
journalist to a kabut today where
soldiers have been removing the bodies
of people killed by Hamas including
babies and children just a warning we're
about to show some distressing images
from that area a small community has
been destroyed with bodies strewn across
the area troops were unable to remove
the victims until now because of the
fighting and the need to disable booby
traps Israeli combat soldiers are still
deployed in the fields around that
kibuts our International editor Jeremy
Bowen is there and sent this
update these are combat troops from
elite units and there is a high state of
Readiness here you can feel it the
confusion in the the Israeli Army that
followed the initial Hamas attack has
gone now as they've come in and regained
control of these border
areas it was tough enough for the
Israelis to come in to recapture this
area these small border communities it
is a different order of military
challenge to cross the wire to get into
Gaza potentially to fight house to house
at a time when Hamas will have made its
plans and we be
waiting well we gone straight to these
live pictures from Gaza because as the
light has dimmed that is the scene and
we've seen this now for 4 days these
strikes in retaliation from Israel
lighting up the sky some strikes there
Israel says on Hamas positions but we
know from the Palestinian authorities
that over 800 100 people have now been
confirmed dead in that area let's bring
in Lee duet who's there for us in
Jerusalem as we stay with these pictures
day four of this and absolutely no letup
lease in terms of the Israeli
response Israeli response and uh Hamas
response it it was extraordinary that we
heard at about 3:30 local time that they
were going to attack uh the area of
ashalon in retaliation for Israeli
bombardment of Gaza and right right on
time local time 5:00 there was a rain of
rockets into ashalon you were reporting
them earlier in the program and now
comes Israel's retaliation last night
was reported as the night of the most
intense aerial bombardment of Gaza and
now as as the night draws in it looks
looks like it will be another night the
same last night Israel said it hit
2,400 Hamas targets uh we know that they
have said prime minister Netanyahu has
said they will hit everything to do with
Hamas they want to to Tred to degrade or
destroy all of their in infrastructure
we our our viewers will have seen the
comments by our reporter in Gaza rushi
Abu Alo he's been there for 20 years
reporting from which means that he's
reported on a lot of wars and he said
last night was the most frightening
night that he and his family the
families who living in their building
had ever lived through yes it was a
really graphic account he gave uh on the
BBC a little early he even filmed when
he got outside some of the damage in
Gaza he described it at one stage as
looking like an earthquake had struck
now the Prime Minister said uh around
this time yesterday it was only the
beginning in terms of options for the
Israelis what is still available to
them a lot is available to them we heard
from the Prime Minister prime minister
Benjamin atyu last night warning that
Israel's air strikes that we've been
discussing that our viewers have been
seeing in the live shots from Gaza was
only the beginning of a war he said
Israel was now engaging nothing less he
said than to ensure Ure Israel's
survival as we've been reporting most of
that military activity over the past few
days has centered around ashalon around
the southern border where it's given
that the Israelis say they have
recovered so far
1,500 bodies of Hamas Fighters those who
managed to penetrate what was always
regarded as an impenetrable fence with
so many uh you know high-tech sensors
drones te- walls watch Towers meant to
keep Hamas away from firing Rockets from
entering and of course Hamas was able to
overcome all of that we heard from
Israel earlier today they believe they
have secured that border with the Gaza
Strip although they admit it there may
still be ways for Hamas fighters to
penetrate but once they feel they have
that area under control and they will
intensify the bombardment try to to
diminish hamas's cap capabilities in the
Gaza Strip while all the while preparing
for what is widely expected to be highly
dangerous um highly risky but what
Israel now believes is highly necessary
a ground incursion of the kind they
haven't undertaken since they pulled out
their troops from Gaza in 2005 briefly
at least because we've been hearing from
some of the families about loved ones
taken hostage how much real pressure is
growing on benj Netanyahu in terms of
trying to get those citizens
back huge pressure Israel always regards
it as absolutely vital to bring every
Israeli home they negotiated for five
years to get one Israeli soldier gilad
Shalit uh out of Hamas hands this time
the situation is different because of
hamas's assault on Israel and so many
lives lost that may change the Dynamics
a bit but they'll do everything possible
but it is a process fraught with risk